---
title: "Designing calmworklight: Signaling Focus with a Desk Light"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2019-turan-et-al
venue: "In Companion Publication of the 2019 on Designing Interactive Systems Conference 2019 Companion (DIS '19 Companion). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 301–305."
excerpt: 'This work-in-progress paper summarizes the design process and first test results with a brain-computer interface-based, light-outputting system that supports the individual to focus on own attentive abilities and regulates the communication within the individual's physical organization.'
date: 2019-06-18
paperurl: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XRTg0G9QcGXsN7TmDfoIbIF20kU8BX0X/view?usp=sharing
citation: 'Semra Gulce Turan, Silas Ramsoe Ozaltin, and Asim Evren Yantac (2019). "Designing calmworklight: Signaling Focus with a Desk Light." <i>In Companion Publication of the 2019 on Designing Interactive Systems Conference 2019 Companion (DIS '19 Companion). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 301–305.</i>. 1(1).'

---

## Abstract
While working, we are not always in line with our ability to focus. Being more mindful of own cognitive abilities, including the ability to focus, may contribute to a more pleasant work experience. This paper presents calmworklight, an initial design proposal for dealing with this issue. calmworklight is a desktop lamp that responds to changes in peoples' focus strength as captured by a commercially available EEG device. The lamp's expression depends solely on the user's level of focus. If it is strong, the lamp returns a steady, calming warm light. If not, the light emission follows a breathing pattern, aiming to encourage the user to be more mindful of their breath and to cultivate a meditative focus. We conducted 3 user studies to get a better understanding of calmworklight's usage and benefits. The most striking outcome of the study is the worker's need for a regulating system that helps them plan when to socialize and when to focus, which should be considered for future workplace designs.

